Modular design - Wikipedia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jump to content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main menu 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
		Navigation
	 
 
 
 Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us 
 
 
 
 
 
		Contribute
	 
 
 
 Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appearance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Donate 
 
 Create account 
 
 Log in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Personal tools 
 
 
 
 
 
 Donate   Create account   Log in 
 
 
 
 
 
		Pages for logged out editors  learn more 
 
 
 
 Contributions Talk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
 
 (Top) 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Overview 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 Applications 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle Applications subsection 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.1 
 In vehicles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.2 
 In machines and architecture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 In computer hardware 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 In smartphones 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 
 In televisions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.6 
 In weaponry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.7 
 In trade show exhibits and retail displays 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 Integrating the digital twin into modular design 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 Integrating life-cycle and energy assessments into modular design 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 See also 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 References 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 Further reading 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle the table of contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Modular design 
 
 
 
 13 languages 
 
 
 
 
 العربية Català Deutsch Español فارسی 한국어 Magyar Nederlands 日本語 Русский Suomi Українська 中文 
 
 Edit links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Article Talk 
 
 
 
 
 
 English 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read Edit View history 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tools 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tools 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
		Actions
	 
 
 
 Read Edit View history 
 
 
 
 
 
		General
	 
 
 
 What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code 
 
 
 
 
 
		Print/export
	 
 
 
 Download as PDF Printable version 
 
 
 
 
 
		In other projects
	 
 
 
 Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appearance 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
 
 
 Design approach 
 This article is about a design approach. For factory built structures moved in modules, see  Modular building . 
 A  laptop  that is designed to be modular 
 Modular design , or modularity in design, is a design principle that subdivides a system into smaller parts called  modules  (such as modular process skids), which can be independently created, modified, replaced, or exchanged with other modules or between different systems.
 
 
 Overview [ edit ] 
 This section includes a  list of references ,  related reading , or  external links ,  but its sources remain unclear because it lacks  inline citations .  Please help  improve  this section by  introducing  more precise citations.   ( December 2019 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) 
 A modular design can be characterized by functional partitioning into discrete scalable and reusable modules, rigorous use of well-defined modular interfaces, and making use of industry standards for interfaces. In this context modularity is at the component level, and has a single dimension, component slottability. A modular system with this limited modularity is generally known as a platform system that uses modular components. Examples are  car platforms  or the  USB  port in  computer engineering  platforms.
 In design theory this is distinct from a modular system which has higher dimensional modularity and degrees of freedom. A modular system design has no distinct lifetime and exhibits flexibility in at least three dimensions. In this respect modular systems are very rare in markets. Mero architectural systems are the closest example to a modular system in terms of hard products in markets.  Weapons platforms, especially in aerospace, tend to be modular systems, wherein the airframe is designed to be upgraded multiple times during its lifetime, without the purchase of a completely new system. Modularity is best defined by the dimensions effected or the degrees of freedom in form, cost, or operation.
 Modularity offers benefits such as reduction in cost (customization can be limited to a portion of the system, rather than needing an overhaul of the entire system), interoperability, shorter learning time, flexibility in design, non-generationally constrained augmentation or updating (adding new solution by merely plugging in a new module), and exclusion.  Modularity in platform systems, offer benefits in returning margins to scale, reduced product development cost, reduced O&M costs, and time to market.  Platform systems have enabled the wide use of system design in markets and the ability for product companies to separate the rate of the product cycle from the R&D paths. The biggest drawback with modular systems is the designer or engineer.  Most designers are poorly trained in  systems analysis  and most engineers are poorly trained in design. The design complexity of a modular system is significantly higher than a platform system and requires experts in design and product strategy during the conception phase of system development. That phase must anticipate the directions and levels of flexibility necessary in the system to deliver the modular benefits. Modular systems could be viewed as more complete or holistic design whereas platforms systems are more reductionist, limiting modularity to components.  Complete or holistic modular design requires a much higher level of design skill and sophistication than the more common platform system.
 Cars ,  computers ,  process systems ,  solar panels ,  wind turbines ,  elevators ,  furniture ,  looms ,  railroad signaling  systems,  telephone exchanges ,  pipe organs ,  synthesizers ,  electric power distribution  systems and modular buildings are examples of platform systems using various levels of component modularity.  For example, one cannot assemble a solar cube from extant solar components or easily replace the engine on a truck or rearrange a modular housing unit into a different configuration after a few years, as would be the case in a modular system. These key characteristics make modular furniture incredibly versatile and adaptable. [ 1 ]  The only extant examples of modular systems in today's market are some software systems that have shifted away from versioning into a completely networked paradigm.
 Modular design inherently combines the  mass production  advantages of  standardization  with those of  customization . The degree of modularity, dimensionally, determines the degree of customization possible. For example, solar panel systems have 2-dimensional modularity which allows adjustment of an array in the x and y dimensions.  Further dimensions of modularity would be introduced by making the panel itself and its auxiliary systems modular. Dimensions in modular systems are defined as the effected  parameter  such as shape or cost or lifecycle. Mero systems have 4-dimensional modularity, x, y, z, and structural load capacity. As can be seen in any modern convention space, the space frame's extra two dimensions of modularity allows far greater flexibility in form and function than solar's 2-d modularity. If modularity is properly defined and conceived in the design strategy, modular systems can create significant competitive advantage in markets.  A true modular system does not need to rely on product cycles to adapt its functionality to the current market state.  Properly designed modular systems also introduce the economic advantage of not carrying dead capacity, increasing the capacity utilization rate and its effect on cost and pricing flexibility.
 
 Applications [ edit ] 
 In vehicles [ edit ] 
 See also:  Electric vehicle ,  Wikispeed , and  open-source vehicle 
 The modular design of the  Unimog  offers attachment capabilities for various different  implements . 
 Aspects of modular design can be seen in cars or other  vehicles  to the extent of there being certain parts to the car that can be added or removed without altering the rest of the car.
 A simple example of modular design in cars is the fact that, while many cars come as a basic model, paying extra will allow for "snap in" upgrades such as a more powerful engine,  vehicle audio ,  ventilated seats , or seasonal tires; these do not require any change to other units of the car such as the  chassis , steering,  electric motor  or battery systems.
 
 In machines and architecture [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Modular building 
 Modular design can be seen in certain buildings. Modular buildings (and also modular homes) generally consist of universal parts (or modules) that are manufactured in a  factory  and then shipped to a build site where they are assembled into a variety of arrangements. [ 2 ] 
 Modular buildings can be added to or reduced in size by adding or removing certain components. This can be done without altering larger portions of the building. Modular buildings can also undergo changes in functionality using the same process of adding or removing components.
 
 Modular workstations 
 For example, an  office  building can be built using modular parts such as walls, frames, doors, ceilings, and windows. The interior can then be partitioned (or divided) with more walls and furnished with desks, computers, and whatever else is needed for a functioning workspace. If the office needs to be expanded or redivided to accommodate employees, modular components such as wall panels can be added or relocated to make the necessary changes without altering the whole building. Later, this same office can be broken down and rearranged to form a  retail  space,  conference hall  or another type of building, using the same modular components that originally formed the office building. The new building can then be refurnished with whatever items are needed to carry out its desired functions.
 Other types of modular buildings that are offered from a company like Allied Modular include a  guardhouse , machine enclosure,  press box ,  conference room , two-story building,  clean room  and many more applications. [ 3 ] 
 Many misconceptions are held regarding modular buildings. [ 4 ]  In reality modular construction is a viable method of construction for quick turnaround and fast growing companies. Industries that would benefit from this include healthcare, commercial, retail, military, and multi-family/student housing.
 
 In computer hardware [ edit ] 
 Modular computer design 
 Modular design in computer hardware is the same as in other things (e.g. cars, refrigerators, and furniture). The idea is to build computers with easily replaceable parts that use standardized  interfaces . This technique allows a user to upgrade certain aspects of the computer easily without having to buy another computer altogether.
 A computer is one of the best examples of modular design. Typical  computer modules  include a  computer chassis ,  power supply units ,  processors ,  mainboards ,  graphics cards ,  hard drives , and  optical drives . All of these parts should be easily  interchangeable  as long as the user uses parts that support the same standard interface.
 
 In smartphones [ edit ] 
 Further information:  Modular smartphone 
 The idea of a modular  smartphone  was explored in  Project Ara , which provided a platform for manufactures to create modules for a smartphone which could then be customised by the end user. The  Fairphone  uses a similar principle, where the user can purchase individual parts to repair or upgrade the phone.
 
 In televisions [ edit ] 
 In 1963  Motorola  introduced the first rectangular color picture tube, and in 1967 introduced the modular  Quasar  brand. In 1964 it opened its first research and development branch outside of the United States, in Israel under the management of Moses Basin. In 1974  Motorola  sold its television business to the Japan-based Matsushita, the parent company of  Panasonic .
 
 In weaponry [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Modular weapon system 
 Some firearms and weaponry use a modular design to make maintenance and operation easier and more familiar. For instance, German  firearms manufacturer   Heckler & Koch  produces several weapons that, while being different types, are visually and, in many instances, internally similar. These are the  G3   battle rifle ,  HK21   general-purpose machine gun ,  MP5   submachine gun ,  HK33  and  G41   assault rifles , and  PSG1   sniper rifle .
 
 In trade show exhibits and retail displays [ edit ] 
 The concept of modular design has become popular with  trade show  exhibits and  retail promotional displays . These kind of promotional displays involve creative custom designs but need a temporary structure that can be reusable. Thus many companies are adapting to the Modular way of exhibit design. In this they can use pre engineered modular systems that act as building blocks to creative a custom design. These can then be reconfigured to another layout and reused for a future show. This enables the user to reduce cost of manufacturing and labor (for set up and transport) and is a more sustainable way of creating experiential set ups.
 
 Integrating the digital twin into modular design [ edit ] 
 See also:  Digital twin § Modularity 
 This section  needs expansion . You can help by  adding to it .   ( December 2019 ) 
 Product lifecycle management  is a strategy for efficiently managing information about a  product  (and product families, platforms, modules, and parts) during its  product lifecycle . [ 5 ]  Researchers have described how integrating a  digital twin —a digital representation of a physical product—with modular design can improve product lifecycle management. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
 
 Integrating life-cycle and energy assessments into modular design [ edit ] 
 See also:  Life-cycle assessment 
 Some authors observe that modular design has generated in the vehicle industry a constant increase of weight over time. Trancossi advanced the hypothesis that modular design can be coupled by some optimization criteria derived from the  constructal law . [ 8 ]  In fact, the constructal law is modular for his nature and can apply with interesting results in engineering simple systems. [ 9 ]  It applies with a typical bottom-up optimization schema: 
 
 a system can be divided into subsystems (elemental parts) using tree models; 
 any complex system can be represented in a modular way and it is possible to describe how different physical magnitudes flow through the system; 
 analyzing the different flowpaths it is possible to identify the critical components that affect the performance of the system; 
 by optimizing those components and substituting them with more performing ones, it is possible to improve the performances of the system. 
 A better formulation has been produced during the MAAT EU FP7 Project. [ 10 ]  A new design method that couples the above bottom-up optimization with a preliminary system level top-down design has been formulated. [ 11 ]  The two step design process has been motivated by considering that constructal and modular design does not refer to any objective to be reached in the design process. A theoretical formulation has been provided in a recent paper, [ 8 ]  and applied with success to the design of a small aircraft, [ 12 ]  the conceptual design of innovative commuter aircraft, [ 13 ] [ 14 ]  the design of a new entropic wall, [ 15 ]  and an innovative off-road vehicle designed for  energy efficiency . [ 16 ] 
 
 See also [ edit ] 
 
 3D printing 
 Cellular automaton 
 Configuration design 
 Holarchy 
 Holism 
 Kraftei 
 Modular building 
 Modular construction systems 
 Modular function deployment  (MFD) 
 Modular programming 
 Modular smartphone 
 Modular weapon system 
 Modularity 
 Open-design movement 
 Open-source hardware 
 OpenStructures 
 Pattern language 
 Reconfigurable manufacturing system 
 Separation of concerns 
 Systems design 
 Systems engineering 
 System integration 
 
 References [ edit ] 
 
 
 ^   S, Rob (May 6, 2023).  "What Is Modular Furniture: A Comprehensive Guide" .  SitBackLounge . Retrieved  July 25,  2023 . 
 
 ^   "Modular home definition" . Archived from  the original  on 2011-08-08 . Retrieved  2010-08-19 . 
 
 ^   Allied Modular Products  Allied Modular. Retrieved March 27, 2012 
 
 ^   "modular building" . Archived from  the original  on 2014-09-17. 
 
 ^   Stark, John (2015) [2005].  Product Lifecycle Management (Volume 1): 21st Century Paradigm for Product Realisation . Decision Engineering (3rd ed.). Cham:  Springer-Verlag . pp.  1– 20.  doi : 10.1007/978-3-319-17440-2 .  ISBN   978-3-319-17439-6 .  OCLC   907289028 . 
 
 ^   Schleich, Benjamin; Anwer, Nabil; Mathieu, Luc; Wartzack, Sandro (January 2017).  "Shaping the digital twin for design and production engineering"   (PDF) .  CIRP Annals .  66  (1):  141– 144.  doi : 10.1016/j.cirp.2017.04.040 . 
 
 ^   Grieves, Michael; Vickers, John (2017). "Digital twin: mitigating unpredictable, undesirable emergent behavior in complex systems". In Kahlen, Franz-Josef; Flumerfelt, Shannon; Alves, Anabela (eds.).  Transdisciplinary perspectives on complex systems: new findings and approaches . Cham:  Springer-Verlag . pp.  85– 113.  doi : 10.1007/978-3-319-38756-7 .  ISBN   9783319387543 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Trancossi, M.  A response to industrial maturity and energetic issues: a possible solution based on constructal law . Eur. Transp. Res. Rev. (2015) 7: 2.  doi : 10.1007/s12544-014-0150-4 
 
 ^   Bejan A. , and  Lorente S. , "Constructal theory of generation of configuration in nature and engineering", J. Appl. Phys., 100, 2006,  doi : 10.1063/1.2221896 
 
 ^   "Multibody Advanced Airship for Transport | Projects | FP7-TRANSPORT" . 
 
 ^   Dumas A, Madonia M, Trancossi M, Vucinic D (2013)  "Propulsion of photovoltaic cruiser-feeder airships dimensioning by constructal design for efficiency method" [ dead link ] . SAE Int J Aerosp 6(1):273–285.  doi : 10.4271/2013-01-2303 
 
 ^   Trancossi, M., Bingham, C., Capuani, A., Das, S. et al.,  "Multifunctional unmanned reconnaissance aircraft for low-speed and STOL operations" [ dead link ] , SAE Technical Paper 2015-01-2465, 2015.  doi : 10.4271/2015-01-2465 
 
 ^   Trancossi, M., Madonia, M., Dumas, A. et al.  "A new aircraft architecture based on the ACHEON Coanda effect nozzle: flight model and energy evaluation" .  Eur. Transp. Res. Rev.  (2016) 8: 11.  doi : 10.1007/s12544-016-0198-4 
 
 ^   Trancossi, M., Dumas, A., Madonia, M., Subhash, M. et al.,  "Preliminary implementation study of ACHEON thrust and vector electrical propulsion on a STOL light utility aircraft" , SAE Technical Paper 2015-01-2422, 2015.  doi : 10.4271/2015-01-2422 
 
 ^   Trancossi, M., et al.  "Constructal design of an entropic wall with circulating water inside" .  Journal of Heat Transfer , 2016, 138.8: 082801. 
 
 ^   Trancossi M., Pascoa J,  "Design of an innovative off road hybrid vehicle by energy efficiency criteria" ,  International Journal of Heat and Technology , 2016. 
 
 
 Further reading [ edit ] 
 Schilling, MA., "Toward a general modular systems theory and its application to interfirm product modularity" Academy of Management Review, 2000, Vol 25(2):312-334.  [1] 
 Erixon, O.G. and Ericsson, A., " Controlling Design Variants " USA: Society of Manufacturing Engineers 1999  [2]   ISBN   0-87263-514-7   [3] 
 Clark, K.B. and Baldwin, C.Y., " Design Rules. Vol. 1: The Power of Modularity " Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press 2000  ISBN   0-262-02466-7 
 Baldwin, C.Y., Clark, K.B., " The Option Value of Modularity in Design " Harvard Business School, 2002  [4] 
 Levin, Mark Sh. " Modular systems design and evaluation ". Springer, 2015. 
 Modularity in Design Formal Modeling & Automated Analysis 
 "Modularity: upgrading to the next generation design architecture"   Archived  2019-07-19 at the  Wayback Machine , an interview 
 v t e Design 
 Outline 
 Designer 
 Disciplines Communication design 
 Advertising 
 Book design 
 Brand design 
 Exhibit design 
 Film title design 
 Graphic design 
 Motion 
 Postage stamp design 
 Print design 
 Illustration 
 Information design 
 Instructional design 
 News design 
 Photography 
 Retail design 
 Signage  /  Traffic sign design 
 Typography  /  Type design 
 Video design 
 Visual merchandising 
 Environmental design 
 Architecture 
 Architectural lighting design 
 Building design 
 Passive solar 
 Ecological design 
 Environmental impact design 
 Garden design 
 Computer-aided 
 Healthy community design 
 Hotel design 
 Interior architecture 
 Interior design 
 EID 
 Keyline design 
 Landscape architecture 
 Sustainable 
 Landscape design 
 Spatial design 
 Urban design 
 Industrial design 
 Automotive design 
 Automotive suspension design 
 CMF design 
 Corrugated box design 
 Electric guitar design 
 Furniture design 
 Sustainable 
 Hardware interface design 
 Motorcycle design 
 Packaging and labeling 
 Photographic lens design 
 Product design 
 Production design 
 Sensory design 
 Service design 
 Interaction design 
 Experience design 
 EED 
 Game design 
 Level design 
 Video game design 
 Hardware interface design 
 Icon design 
 Immersive design 
 Information design 
 Interactive design 
 Sonic interaction design 
 User experience design 
 User interface design 
 Web design 
 Other applied arts 
 Public art design 
 Ceramic  /  glass design 
 Fashion design 
 Costume design 
 Jewellery design 
 Floral design 
 Game art design 
 Property design 
 Scenic design 
 Sound design 
 Stage/set lighting design 
 Textile design 
 Other design &  engineering 
 Algorithm design 
 Behavioural design 
 Boiler design 
 Database design 
 Drug design 
 Electrical system design 
 Experimental design 
 Filter design 
 Geometric design 
 Work design 
 Integrated circuit design 
 Circuit design 
 Physical design 
 Power network design 
 Mechanism design 
 Nuclear weapon design 
 Nucleic acid design 
 Organization design 
 Process design 
 Processor design 
 Protein design 
 Research design 
 Social design 
 Software design 
 Spacecraft design 
 Strategic design 
 Systems design 
 Test design 
 Approaches 
 Active 
 Activity-centered 
 Adaptive web 
 Affective 
 Brainstorming 
 By committee 
 By contract 
 C-K theory 
 Closure 
 Configuration 
 Contextual 
 Continuous 
 Cradle-to-cradle 
 Creative problem-solving 
 Creativity techniques 
 Critical 
 Design fiction 
 Defensive 
 Design–bid–build 
 Design–build 
 architect-led 
 Diffuse 
 Domain-driven 
 Ecological design 
 Energy neutral 
 Engineering design process 
 Probabilistic design 
 Ergonomic 
 Error-tolerant 
 Evidence-based 
 Fault-tolerant 
 Feminist 
 For assembly 
 For behaviour change 
 For manufacturability 
 For Six Sigma 
 For testing 
 For the environment 
 For X 
 Framework-oriented 
 Functional 
 Generative 
 Geodesign 
 HCD 
 High-level 
 Hostile 
 Inclusive 
 Integrated 
 Integrated topside 
 Intelligence-based 
 Iterative 
 KISS principle 
 Low-level 
 Metadesign 
 Mind mapping 
 Modular 
 New Wave 
 Object-oriented 
 Open 
 Over 
 Parametric 
 Participatory 
 Platform-based 
 Policy-based 
 Prevention through 
 Process-centered 
 Public interest 
 Opinion poll 
 Public opinion 
 Rational 
 Regenerative 
 Reliability engineering 
 Research-based 
 Responsibility-driven 
 RWD 
 Safe-life 
 Speculative 
 Sustainable 
 Systemic 
 SOD 
 Tableless web 
 Theory of constraints 
 Top-down and bottom-up 
 Transformation 
 Transgenerational 
 TRIZ 
 Universal 
 Design for All 
 Usage-centered 
 Use-centered 
 User-centered 
 Empathic 
 User innovation 
 Value-driven 
 Value sensitive 
 Privacy by 
 Quality by 
 Secure by 
 Design  choice 
 computing 
 controls 
 culture 
 flow 
 justice 
 leadership 
 management 
 marker 
 methods 
 pattern 
 research 
 science 
 sprint 
 strategy 
 theory 
 thinking 
 Tools Intellectual property Organizations Awards Tools 
 AAD 
 Architectural model 
 Blueprint 
 Comprehensive layout 
 CAD 
 CAID 
 Virtual home design software 
 CAutoD 
 Design quality indicator 
 Electronic design automation 
 Flowchart 
 Mockup 
 Design specification 
 Design system 
 Prototype 
 Sketch 
 Storyboard 
 Technical drawing 
 HTML editor 
 Website wireframe 
 Intellectual property 
 Clean-room design 
 Community design 
 Design around 
 Design infringement 
 Design patent 
 Fashion design copyright 
 Geschmacksmuster 
 Industrial design rights 
 European Union 
 Organizations 
 American Institute of Graphic Arts 
 Chartered Society of Designers 
 Design and Industries Association 
 Design Council 
 International Forum Design 
 Design Research Society 
 Awards 
 European Design Award 
 German Design Award 
 Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
 Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
 Graphex 
 IF Product Design Award 
 James Dyson Award 
 Prince Philip Designers Prize 
 Related topics 
 Agile 
 Concept art 
 Conceptual design 
 Creative industries 
 Cultural icon 
 .design 
 Dominant design 
 Enterprise architecture 
 Form factor 
 Futures studies 
 Indie design 
 Innovation management 
 Intelligent design 
 Lean startup 
 New product development 
 OODA loop 
 Philosophy of design 
 Process simulation 
 Reference design 
 Slow design 
 STEAM fields 
 Unintelligent design 
 Visualization 
 Wicked problem 
 Design  attributes 
 brief 
 change 
 classic 
 competition 
 architectural 
 student 
 director 
 education 
 elements 
 engineer 
 firm 
 history 
 knowledge 
 language 
 life 
 load 
 museum 
 optimization 
 paradigm 
 principles 
 rationale 
 review 
 specification 
 studies 
 studio 
 technology 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Modular_design&oldid=1270676344 " 
 Categories :  Modular design Systems engineering Engineering concepts Design Holism Decomposition methods Open-source hardware Hidden categories:  All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2022 Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2019 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles to be expanded from December 2019 All articles to be expanded Webarchive template wayback links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This page was last edited on 20 January 2025, at 18:16  (UTC) . 
 Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. 
 
 
 Privacy policy 
 About Wikipedia 
 Disclaimers 
 Contact Wikipedia 
 Code of Conduct 
 Developers 
 Statistics 
 Cookie statement 
 Mobile view 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle the table of contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Modular design 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 languages 
 
 
 Add topic