# Processed Document
# Processing Date: 2025-06-22 21:25:28
# Content Length: 56795 characters
# Word Count: 8360 words
# ==================================================

--- Page 1 ---
See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/323726498
Modularization in chemical processing
Article in Chemical Engineering Progress  March 2018
CITATIONS
8
READS
2,217
4 authors, including:
Michael Baldea
University of Texas at Austin
260 PUBLICATIONS 5,877 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
Anton A. Kiss
Delft University of Technology
351 PUBLICATIONS 10,205 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Anton A. Kiss on 06 April 2020.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
--- Page 2 ---
Modular Manufacturing Processes: Status, Challenges and
Opportunities
Michael Baldea, Thomas F. Edgar
McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering,
The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA
Bill L. Stanley
Ventech, Pasadena, TX 77506, USA
Anton A. Kiss
Sustainable Process Technology Group, Faculty of Science and Technology,
University of Twente, 7500 AE Enschede, The Netherlands
Abstract
Chemical companies are constantly seeking new, high-margin growth opportunities, the majority of
which lie in high-grade, specialty chemicals, rather than in the bulk sector. In order to realize these
opportunities, manufacturers are increasingly considering decentralized, ﬂexible production facilities:
large-scale production units are uneconomical for innovative products with a short lifespan and volatile
markets. Small modular plants have low ﬁnancial risks, are ﬂexible and can respond rapidly to changes in
demand. Logistics costs can be also reduced by moving production closer to customers and/or sources of
raw materials. Moreover, stricter safety regulations can in many cases be more easily met using smaller
distributed facilities.
Modularization of chemical production can thus have potentially signiﬁcant economic and safety ben-
eﬁts. In this article, we review several drivers for modular production, and evaluate modular production
architectures based on the value density of feedstock resources and markets for the products of a process.
We also discuss the links between modularization and process intensiﬁcation. We illustrate the discussion
with an array of industrial examples, which we also use to motivate a summary of challenges and future
directions for this area.
1
Introduction
For nearly a century, the discipline that we proudly refer to as modern chemical engineering has been
deﬁned and driven by two fundamental tenets. First, the economy of scale, which dictates that making
chemical plants larger will make their construction more capital-eﬃcient and improve the utilization of re-
sources, thereby reducing the operating cost and the price of products (while improving proﬁt). Second, these
plants are designed and built using a relatively uniform set of building blocks, i.e., unit operations. Following
the vision of pioneer Warren K. Lewis, the unit operations framework aﬀorded method and structure to the
synthesis and analysis of chemical plants, and provided a rational and systematic path towards performing
(shortcut) process design calculations in an era ruled by the slide rule rather than by the digital computer.
This has in eﬀect perpetuated in the way chemical engineers design, simulate, optimize (and teach) process
designs today.
These tenets have not, however, remained without challenge. Process intensiﬁcation, a concept hinted
at by some early results in the ﬁrst part of the twentieth century1, and augmented over the past two
decades, aims to alter the conventional one unitone operation approach by combining multiple unit
corresponding author: mbaldea@che.utexas.edu
1
--- Page 3 ---
operations in the same physical device.
By bringing multiple physical and chemical processes in close
physical proximity, intensiﬁed systems minimize transfer/transport limitations. In turn, this means that
phenomena such as catalytic reactions are governed by their intrinsic rates, rather than by diﬀusion through
the catalyst structure. As a consequence, such intensiﬁed devices tend to be smaller and more eﬃcient
than their conventional, unit-operation counterparts. Moreover, reduced dimensions have safety advantages,
lowering the holdup of potentially harmful chemicals and reducing the process response time for process
control.
The choice of physical dimensions often plays an important role in the conception and construction of
intensiﬁed systems.
Indeed, such systems are only viable at certain length scales.
While, for example,
dividing wall columns appear to be quite scalable in capacity, the channel height of microchannel reactors
cannot exceed a few millimeters lest homogeneous reactions (notably combustion) start to occur. In turn,
this places limitations on the processing capacity of some intensiﬁed processes, and it has been argued
that increasing throughput should be achieved by numbering up (i.e., increasing the number of devices
operating in parallel)1.
Numbering up is an indirect challenge to the ﬁrst tenet mentioned above, of the economies of scale.
Conventional scale-up techniques increase capacity over an existing system by designing and constructing a
device/process that is conceptually similar in functionality but of (signiﬁcantly) larger size. In this manner,
the plant capacity can be chosen from a continuous range, with the optimal value driven by a typical tradeoﬀ
between market capacity, capital expenditure and operating cost. On the other hand, numbering up only
aﬀords discrete choices in setting the capacity of a plant, by selecting the (integer) number of (typically
identical) processing devices/modules. The product portfolio of a facility can also be expanded by adding
the relevant modules.
While not nearly as widespread as in other sectors (e.g., electronics, automotive), modularity has been
present in diﬀerent forms in the process industries for at least half a century, and the intent of this paper is
to review the status modular manufacturing developments, analyze their role in todays chemical industry
and identify challenges and opportunities that should guide further developments in the area.
We categorize resources and markets in terms of a newly deﬁned metric, value density, and argue that
the opportunities for modular manufacturing are tied to this metric.
Moreover, we posit that process
intensiﬁcation is an enabler but not a necessary condition for modular manufacturing.
2
What is modular?
The dictionary  deﬁnes a module as any in a series of standardized units for use together. For many a
reader, this will immediately bring to mind and not without justiﬁcation the aforementioned unit oper-
ations framework. Indeed, unit operations are modules in their own right, as they have been deliberately
standardized to work together from a functional perspective. However, in this article we do not intend to
refer exclusively to unit operations as the modules of interest. To the contrary, our intention is to look
beyond the conventional unit operations framework. More speciﬁcally, modularity based on process intensi-
ﬁcation goes beyond the unit operations by allowing the synergistic combination of fundamental functions
(tasks) into a single equipment (e.g.
reactive distillation, spinning disk reactors, membrane distillation,
heat-integrated reactors or distillation columns). While both PI techniques and modular manufacturing can
used independently, it is more beneﬁcial to apply ﬁrst PI to various sections of a process and then combine
the PI solutions as modules for the overall plant.
Thus, in the context of chemical processing, we identify three categories of modularity: modular fabrica-
tion and construction, modular design and modular manufacturing.
Modular fabrication and construction
Modular fabrication and construction is probably the oldest attempt at modularization of chemical plants,
going back to at least the 1960s2. Modular fabrication and construction denotes the situation where a single
facility of annual capacity P is built from (not necessarily identical) factory-preassembled blocks/modules,
that are interconnected in the ﬁeld with minimal eﬀort, as opposed to a largely ﬁeld-erected (also referred
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/module, last retrieved 10/17/2016
2
--- Page 4 ---
Figure 1: A shipping container-sized module consisting of two heat exchangers. The top of the module serves
as a pipe rack. Photo used from permission from Mr. Bill Stanley.
to as stick-built) structure. Such modules may comprise one conventional unit operation, several unit
operations or only part of a unit operation.
Process design for modular fabrication and construction ensures that the functionality of the process is
exactly the same as in the case of a conventional facility2. The module is typically piped and all tubing,
wiring and control connections are complete. The module communicates with the rest of the plant (i.e., other
modules) by containing junction boxes for power wiring and control wiring and a header for instrument air.
In many cases, the pipe rack is integrated in the module, with the top portion of the module carrying the
aforementioned ducts and piping (Figure 1).
The detailed engineering and mechanical design of each module should account for considerations such
as module weight and dimensions (driven by transportation constraints and the size of the plot of land
available for plant installation), strength of frame materials (to support the weight of the equipment within
the module, as well as to withstand any conditions encountered during transportation), the need for an
foundation for the module to be deployed, etc.
There are several advantages to modular construction, which outweigh a potential (or perceived) increase
in upfront cost3,4,5,6,7:
 Factory assembly provides greater quality control and increased worker safety: shop personnel operate
in a facility with a controlled ﬂow and with access to overhead cranes: for example, most of the
welding on a distillation tower can be carried out with the column in the horizontal position, thereby
avoiding elevated work. Workers remain in a small area with the work brought to their workstation,
and they are more aware of their surroundings and the location of all inputs (tools, industrial gasses,
3
--- Page 5 ---
electrical supply points, etc.) needed to perform their job. Usually, they also know their coworkers
and develop a working relationship promoting safety and eﬃciency. By contrast, a ﬁeld worker moves
around the construction site to the required work and must move all required equipment. Elevated
work on scaﬀolds and the use of mobile cranes are typical, with the inherent increase in safety risks.
Personnel are subject to inclement weather. Frequently, teams are assembled for each job and there is
minimal workforce cohesion, unlike a fabrication shop with consistent staﬃng.
 Capital cost savings, largely due to labor eﬃciency. In the authors experience, a large portion of the
capital costs for a project is welding. A welding worker working in a shop is considerably more eﬃcient
than the welder in the ﬁeld. As mentioned above, the shop welder remains in the same location and is
welding a high percentage of his time, whereas a ﬁeld welder is less eﬃcient. In 2016 in the Houston
area, a productive hour (one weld on a 6 inch schedule 40 carbon steel pipe) for a welder cost about
$50 (including all overhead items). The cost for ﬁeld work is almost always at least twice that of shop
fabrication and could increase up to a factor of 6, depending on the skill level and availability of the
relevant work force.
Savings in the cost of materials are also possible. While the modules may require some extra steel,
the cost is oﬀset by saving on the cost of foundations, the majority of which can be avoided. Further
savings come from reducing the amount of piping required at the plant level, with pipe racks built into
the modules themselves.
 Savings on deployment cost and project timeline: assembling the modules requires far fewer man-hours
of skilled labor than building the plant in the ﬁeld, shortening project execution times (Figure 2). The
amount of work that can be carried out in the shop (via modular construction) relative to the amount
of work to be completed in the ﬁeld varies from project to project, but shifting the majority of the
work towards the shop can have signiﬁcant beneﬁts in places where qualiﬁed labor and expertise may
be in very short supply.
In the authors experience, in a typical modular construction reﬁnery project, about 65% of the labor is
performed in the shop instead of the ﬁeld. Considering the labor savings and the economics from the initial
stages, the total cost of a project can be reduced by an order of about 30%. Time savings are a considerable
contributor: on a three-year project, approximately one year can be saved on the project utilizing extensive
modularization, leading to an early startup, lower overhead costs and the ﬁnancing for the project reduced
by one year.
One of the challenges to be taken into account when considering a modular construction approach is
transportation: as module size increases, so do the logistic diﬃculties of delivering it to the plant site.
Further, modules may require a higher amount of upfront engineering than conventional unit operations,
and a very detailed design package must typically be available when modules are ordered from external
fabricators7.
The literature provides numerous examples of modular construction, including catalytic cracking units8,
steam methane reformers3, landﬁll gas processing plants8, petrochemical facilities8, chlor-alkali plants9.
In the authors experience, modular construction can be applied to any type of plant, or at least parts
thereof, with the main limitation being the logistics of shipping the modules: rail or road transportation
typically limit the size of a module to that of a standardized shipping container - see Figures 1 and 3.
This further places a practical upper limit on the capacity of a plant that can be deployed via modular
construction; for example, oil reﬁneries can be constructed with such modules up to a capacity of about
30,000 barrels/day. Access to a sea or river port allows for modules of larger size.
Modular design
We use the term modular design to designate a situation whereby a production facility of annual capacity
P is designed for and built with pre-speciﬁed, standardized building blocks (modules). This can include
oﬀ-the-shelf reaction vessels, heat exchangers, separation units, etc. These modules (based on unit oper-
ations or novel process intensiﬁcation techniques) can also feature standardized interconnections for ﬂuid
ﬂow, information, data and control signal exchange, and utility connections10. Modular design can reduce
engineering costs considerably, but at the cost of diminished ﬂexibility11.
4
--- Page 6 ---
Design &
Engineering
Permitting
Module Construction
Site
Development
Install &
Commission
Design &
Engineering
Permitting
Building &
Construction
Site
Development
Commission
Project timeline
Time Savings
Figure 2: Execution timeline for conventional (bottom) and modular construction (top) projects
Figure 3: Modularized distillation system includes boiler, fractionator, overhead condenser, heat exchangers,
pumps and controls. Photo used with permission from Mr. Bill Stanley.
5
--- Page 7 ---
Modular deployment and production
We refer to modular production as the situation where n similar or identical facilities (modules), each of
capacity P/n, are used to meet processing capacity P. These facilities are typically operating in parallel,
may or may not be deployed at the same time (meaning that capacity can be expanded or reduced over
time) and may or may not be geographically co-located. The facilities can themselves be of modular fabri-
cation and construction (a facility may in eﬀect consist of a single fabricated module), and can beneﬁt from
process intensiﬁcation (PI). However, a careful balance must be kept between the degree of integration and
intensiﬁcation, and the need for ensuring the controlability and operability of the process.
Modular deployment and production represents a more recent eﬀort in modular manufacturing, and has
been motivated by the need for more ﬂexible (in terms of capacity, product type and geographic location)
production. A modular facility of this type typically comprises a backbone module that provides utilities
to and connectivity between the production modules12. Modular deployment and production provides
several advantages compared to a conventional facility with ﬁxed capacity P 13,14,15:
1. faster time to market: assuming that a module for producing the desired product is available (either
as a complete construction blueprint or already constructed), it could be deployed in very short time
to meet an immediate product demand. Modular deployment is thus well suited to production of novel
products or for entering emerging markets. Even for new plants, shorter schedules are possible (with
time savings of up to 40% and early proﬁt) as the module construction can be carried out in parallel
to the site construction, or while waiting for permits.
2. lower costs: 30% energy savings, 20% lower operating costs and 40% less capital expenditure are
possible. Reducing the size of ﬁeld crews, more eﬃcient use of materials and shorter schedules all lead
to capital expenditure savings. Plant operation can start (or continue) as new modules are built and
commissioned.
3. scalable capacity: capacity can be scaled in time as market size evolves by adding or removing modules
 an additional feature that supports the use of modular deployment for new products or emerg-
ing/developing markets, where demand is expected to grow (or ﬂuctuate) over time. The ability to
add (or remove) production capacity over time (combined with the possibility of diversifying the prod-
uct portfolio by adding diﬀerent modules  either continuous or batch) also represents a means for
dealing with market uncertainty throughout the lifetime of a plant, potentially simplifying or facilitat-
ing business and investment decisions16,15.
4. simpliﬁed maintenance and lower downtime: in order to minimize the time that a production facility
is oﬀ-line due to breakdowns or routine maintenance, a module could be simply replaced with an
operable one or one whose maintenance is up-to-date. The replaced module can then be serviced on-
site or transported oﬀ-site for service in a central, specialized shop. Naturally, the cost of a replacement
module can be signiﬁcantly higher than the cost of the spare part that is actually needed for repairs
in case of a break-down9.
5. superior safety: modules can be tested at the manufacturers facility prior to shipping to the production
site. Safety risks are reduced as the modules are built under controlled conditions as discussed above.
6. single-source responsibility: building modular units in a dedicated workshop allows the project team
to act as a single-source supplier of equipment and services: detailed engineering, project management,
fabrication of equipment, modular assembly, insulation, automation and control, startup assistance,
operator training, services and advice. The industrial suppliers include among others: CB&I, Zeton,
Koch Modular Process Systems (KMPS), FB Group, MTSA Technopower, Fluor Corp.
When to choose modular deployment and production?
The primary factor that determines the choice of a modular deployment production system (instead of a
conventional process of equal capacity) is economics. We analyze the economics of modular production
by ﬁrst considering a centralized modular facility, and then focusing on distributed modular production,
6
--- Page 8 ---
whereby the modules are placed at diﬀerent locations to account for distributed resource availability or a
geographic spread in market demand.
Centralized modular deployment
Consider the well established power law cost scaling estimate17 for a conventional process of capacity P:
Cc = (kcP)ec
(1)
where C is cost, k and e are parameters, with k > 0 and 0 < e < 1 (typically e 2/3), and the subscript
c denotes a conventional process. We assume that this relation holds for the entire range of capacities, for
both scale-up and scale-down, i.e., from P/n to P. Hence, the cost of a facility of capacity P/n (i.e., a
module) will be
Cm =

kc
P
n
ec
=
1
nec (kcP)ec
(2)
where the subscript m stands for modular. Since n 2 and 0 < ec < 1, clearly nec < n and hence
1
nec > 1
n,
the cost of one module (out of n) is expected to be higher than 1/n of the cost of a conventional process.
Equivalently, a modular centralized plant of capacity P will be more expensive (from a capital point of view)
than a conventional plant of equivalent capacity.
We note that this comparison is based on two premises (see also18):
 P1: the market conditions for the modular and conventional processes are similar
 P2: the two processes utilize the same technology, and an eﬃciency penalty is possibly incurred for
scale-down
We note that, in fact, it is possible possible that the cost of the nth module may be lower than the
cost of the ﬁrst owing to a learning eﬀect (i.e., learning, over time, potential ways to decrease the cost
of making a module)19 and due to natural economies of making the modules in larger numbers. Further,
as mentioned above, not all modules have to be deployed immediately; rather, modular capacity can be
increased as market demand grows. Finally, numerous examples of modularly deployed plants12 make use of
innovative technologies and process intensiﬁcation (i.e., they do not use the same technology as a conventional
plant) to further lower the cost of a module. All these factors contribute to lowering the capital cost of a
centralized modular facility, and, conversely, bringing its net present value (NPV) more in line with that of
a conventional plant.
Extensive empirical evidence collected during the industry-academia Flexible, Fast and Future Pro-
duction Processes collaborative project sponsored by the European Union (the F3 Factory)12 suggests
that modular deployment and production lend themselves well to high-value (more than 100 euro/kg) prod-
ucts made in low-to-medium volumes, and potentially in geographically distributed facilities.
Lier and
Grunewald19 (who considered a very speciﬁc case study) found that the NPV of a modularly deployed plant
is lower than the NPV of a conventional facility when consider a longer (> 10 years) time horizon, further
suggesting that modular production is suited to meeting short- to medium-term market needs that also
ﬂuctuate in time.
In our estimates, we admittedly exclude the cost of labor. Paradoxically, this cost scales relatively well at
both ends of the spectrum18. Due to advances in technology, the personnel required to operate a very large
scale facility is likely not much larger than the number of operators involved in running a plant of comparably
smaller size. Similarly, modular production plants can be operated remotely, with a single, minimally staﬀed
control center providing oversight for multiple such facilities.
The arguments above suggest that the decision to select a centralized modular facility should be based
on a careful analysis of both capital cost and market evolution prospects. A description of a software that
enables a detailed evaluation of modular production concepts is provided by Sievers et al. 20, while a speciﬁc
example is discussed by Lier and Grunewald 19.
7
--- Page 9 ---
Geographically distributed modular deployment
In what follows, we provide a new perspective on the economics of distributed production using modularly
deployed plants. We deﬁne the annual beneﬁt of a conventional centralized process as a function of operating
cost and the capital cost introduced above, as:
Bc = πpP [(πa + πl)P + α(kcP)ec]
(3)
where πa deﬁnes the unit acquisition price of feedstock and πl are the corresponding logistic costs.
α
represents a capital cost coeﬃcient and πp is the product unit price (including the logistic costs for the
product).
For simplicity, we and assume that:
 the acquisition price remains relatively constant
 the logistic costs can be decreased by appropriately locating the processing modules (see, e.g., Lara
and Grossmann 21), and decrease linearly with the number of modules
 the logistic cost for the product is small compared to the logistic cost of the feedstock (similar arguments
can easily be made in the reverse scenario, whereby the logistic cost of the feedstock is small compared
to the product).
The annualized beneﬁt Bm for the corresponding modular processing facility is:
Bm = πpβP 

πa + πl
n

P + αn 1
nec (kcP)ec

(4)
where 0 < β 1 accounts for potential yield and/or eﬃciency losses owing to scale-down of a technology.
Then, we compute the diﬀerence between the annual beneﬁt of the distributed modular and centralized
conventional processes as:
Bm Bc
=
πpP(β 1) + πlP

1 1
n

+ α(kcP)ec 
1 n
nec

(5)
We analyze the diﬀerence term by term as follows:
 the ﬁrst term reﬂects the yield and/or eﬃciency loss due to modularization and is at most zero, showing
that modularization likely incurs an eﬃciency penalty
 the second term corresponds to logistics costs, and will always be positive, showing that under our
assumptions modular production is superior to a conventional process in terms of logistics
 the third term corresponds to the capital cost and will always be negative, indicating that modular
processes remain inferior to conventional ones from a the point of view of capital expenditure for the
same technology.
Thus, equation (5) provides guidance for selecting between distributed modular and centralized conventional
production based on the desired production capacity, the number of modular production units, the cost
scaling model and the desired payback time. A conventional process of capacity P is viable when feedstock
is available at a rate corresponding to P without incurring considerable logistic costs (recall that here we
assume that the logistic cost of the product is small), and distributed modular manufacturing is preferred
otherwise (assuming that the technology itself is cost-competitive at the relevant scale, or that a diﬀerent
but cost-competitive technology exists at this scale).
These arguments further suggest that the potential of a geographic area for supporting a conventional
centralized or modular distributed or decentralized production strategy can be assessed in terms of a value
density Ψ which we deﬁne based on a desired annual production capacity P:
Ψ = πp
πl
Dresource
P
(6)
8
--- Page 10 ---
where Dresource captures the physical density of a resource in terms of available annual supply rate per unit
area.
The value density Ψ can be interpreted as follows:
 low (sub-unitary) values point to either, i) a low πp
πl ratio, suggesting high logistic costs compared
to the price of the product, ii) a low Dresource
P
ratio, suggesting that the area may not be capable of
supplying suﬃcient feedstock for the desired capacity, or, iii) both.
 high (supra-unitary) values conversely indicate that logistic costs may be low, and/or the feedstock in
the area is abundant
The value density can thus be used as a criterion for selecting between distributed, modular and conventional,
centralized production, with high value densities indicating that centralized production may be appropriate,
while a low value density favoring the choice of modular production (Table 1). We note that value density
is intended as a screening criterion, and the decision to invest in a distributed/modular or centralized
process (particularly at intermediary values of Ψ) should be made by taking in consideration the cost and
eﬃciency of the process as described above, as well as predictions regarding changes in market demand and
feedstock availability. Intermediary values can also be used to perform an objective comparison of business
opportunities related to similar circumstances (e.g., invest in distributed manufacturing in area A or in
neighboring area B?).
Table 1: Value density scenarios
πp
πl
Dresource
P
Ψ
Comments
low
low
low
modular deployment and production
low
high
intermediary
high logistics cost, should undertake further analysis
high
low
intermediary
area will not support production
high
high
high
conventional centralized production
As an illustrative example, we consider the production of atmospheric gases (particularly, nitrogen and
oxygen) and hydrogen, which are used to support numerous manufacturing and fabrication processes. Gas
demand can often be satisﬁed by delivering gases packaged in cylinders. For higher demands, the corre-
sponding liqueﬁed products can be delivered via tanker trucks and stored on-site in cryogenic tanks. For still
higher demand, deliveries become uneconomical, and small-scale on-site production is possible22. For exam-
ple, Praxair, Inc. of Danbury, CT23 oﬀers small on-site air separation modules that can produce nitrogen
(via cryogenic separation) at rates of up to 5,000 Nm3/h. Likewise, oxygen of up to about 95% purity can be
generated via vacuum pressure swing adsorption at rates of about 6,000 Nm3/h. Air Products and Chem-
icals (Allentown, PA)24 oﬀers skid-mounted, modular hydrogen generators that rely on steam reforming
to generate up to 5,000 Nm3/h. We note that these quantities are very small compared with the produc-
tion rates of world class plants (which can reach (or exceed), e.g., 90,000 Nm3/h for oxygen and 112,000
Nm3/h for hydrogen (100 million standard cubic feet per day), and reﬂect the low value density (as far as
small-to-medium scale users are concerned) of the industrial gas market. It is noteworthy that, in addition
to economic beneﬁts, on-site production eliminates the safety hazards associated with the transportation of
cryogenic liquids and highly ﬂammable hydrogen.
Another example of developing distributed, modular production plants pertains to the production of
hydrocarbon liquids using stranded natural gas feedstock. Natural gas deposits are referred to as stranded
when their small scale and/or remote location render their exploitation and monetization via conventional
means (i.e., building a pipeline to consumers), economically infeasible. It is currently estimated that one third
of natural gas resources worldwide belong to this category25. Stranded natural gas is thus a resource with
low value density (rather than a low-value density market as in the previous example), and its processing calls
for a distributed approach. Indeed, several authors26,27,28,29 have advocated the development of small-scale
gas to liquids (GTL) processes, which convert stranded gas feedstock into more fungible and more energy
dense liquids, typically via steam-methane reforming followed by Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, conﬁrming the
relevance and applicability of modular production in this case. Commercial deployments have also been
reported, with capacities reaching 1000 barrels per day30. It is noteworthy that the neither steam-methane
9
--- Page 11 ---
reforming nor Fischer-Tropsch synthesis reactors scale down favorably, and process intensiﬁcation (in this
case, in the guise of catalytic plate/ microchannel reactors) has played a key role in making such systems
economically viable.
Similar arguments can be applied when considering distributed biomass processing. Biological feedstock is
cultivated on ﬁelds (e.g., switchgrass, sorghum, corn and corn stover) or harvested from aqueous environments
(e.g., algae); owing to the geographically distributed nature of its production, biomass is a low value density
resource, and hence biomass conversion to fuels and/or chemicals is well suited to modular (pre)processing.
This has indeed been prominently advocated in the literature31,32,13, with the processing pathways geared
towards the production of platform chemicals or transportation fuels.
With the exception of the well-
developed ethanol production process33, the latter rely on Fischer-Tropsch synthesis (as in the case of natural
gas to liquids), with the key diﬀerence that synthesis gas is obtained via gasiﬁcation. Here, too, process
intensiﬁcation via novel reactor technologies is playing a key role. Further biomass-based applications include
power generation, and a review of progress in the ﬁeld of small, modular facilities for power generation from
biomass is provided by Dong et al. 34.
3
Safety and Sustainability Considerations of Distributed Modu-
lar Production
Safety is of paramount importance in the operation of chemical processes, and distributed modular deploy-
ment of chemical production has several potential advantages from this point of view. First, it inherently
reduces the amount of any hazardous chemicals that may be present at a given manufacturing location.
Additionally, certain chemicals can be manufactured on-site, thereby eliminating the need for transportation
of hazardous materials by road or rail.
For example, onsite production of chlorine and chlorine-based oxidants has become interesting as envi-
ronmental regulations (and the corresponding requirements for on-site wastewater treatment) have become
more stringent. Small, modular onsite sodium hypochlorite generators are now available commercially, elim-
inating the need for chlorine deliveries for water treatment plants. Such generators are available in capacities
of up to over one metric ton of chlorine per day from manufacturers such as MIOX35 (Albuquerque, NM),
EVOQUA36 (Warrendale, PA) and De Nora37 (Sugar Land, TX). Larger-scale plants (up to 15,000 tons per
year), comprising multiple such modules, have been developed as well38. The value density of the market
for on-site wastewater treatment at facilities such as resorts, hotels, etc. is inherently low, and production
thus lends itself naturally to a distributed modular paradigm. Furthermore, as in the case of atmospheric
cases and hydrogen, on-site production of hazardous chemicals such as chlorine presents signiﬁcant health
and environmental safety beneﬁts, including eliminating the need for road or rail distribution (which can
be disrupted by accidents or subjected to deliberate attacks39), reducing the amount of stored hazardous
materials and eliminating large-scale facilities and distribution centers that may stockpile chlorine in large
quantities. We note that similar arguments have been brought recently in favor of distributed, small-scale
production of ammonia40.
There are, however, tradeoﬀs for these beneﬁts: the cost of containment systems is likely to scale in the
same manner as the capital cost of equipment (discussed above), and thus the overall cost of such systems
may be higher for a suite of modular facilities that for a conventional, centralized plant. Moreover, the
disadvantage associated with storing a larger amount of potentially hazardous chemicals in a single location
(in the centralized case) may be oﬀset by the fact that the hazard is can be monitored, managed and if
needed mitigated in one place.
Sustainability is also key in the development of new processes. Sustainability and life cycle analysis
tools developed for conventional process systems (see, e.g., Allen and Shonnard 41 and Jacquemin et al. 42)
can serve as the basis for the cradle-to-grave design and analysis of modular processes; several additional
features should be accounted for:
 modules may be depoloyed in diﬀerent geographies (e.g., across U.S. state borders or perhaps across
international borders) and thus subject to diﬀerent safety, health and environmental regulations; in
this case, the modular paradigm would suggest designing to meet the most stringent speciﬁcations, in
spite of the inherent penalty incurred when deploying a module in a location where regulations are
more lax
10
--- Page 12 ---
 as with conventional processes, system maintenance should be carried out regularly to ensure that all
modules are tested and serviced regularly for safe and eﬃcient operation. In the case of distributed
production, this may require additional eﬀort for coordinating the activity and travel schedules of
support technicians and engineers
 modular processing oﬀers the possibility of a staged decommissioning at the end of the service life of
the process; that is, some of the modules in a plant can be decommissioned, while others continue
to operate if permissible and economically advantageous (note that this consideration applies to a
centralized modular facility as well).
4
Process systems engineering for modular production: challenges
and opportunities
4.1
Modular process design
The cost calculations for a process module used in Equation 2 rely on the assumption that the module uses
the same technology as the full-scale, conventional process. This inevitably leads to an increase in the total
cost of a modular process. Process design should therefore consider new process conﬁgurations that are
customized to smaller scales or that scale-down favorably, thereby challenging and eliminating the same
technology assumption.
Process intensiﬁcation should ﬁgure prominently in these eﬀorts, providing new avenues for reducing
module size, reducing cost and potentially increasing eﬃciency. Although modular manufacturing is already
practiced by industry (e.g. using smaller conventional unit operations) the integration of process intensiﬁca-
tion technologies could allow major steps forward by further reducing the overall costs (e.g. fewer equipment
pieces and lower operating costs) and improving safety (e.g. smaller holdup minimizing the inventory of
hazardous materials).
A discussion of the interaction between modularity and intensiﬁcation from an industrial perspective
is given by Bieringer et al. 43. To this end, signiﬁcant progress is required from the process modeling and
optimization perspective.
Practically none of the commercial process modeling and design optimization
software tools available today have the capability of representing intensiﬁed and modular systems explicitly
and at the relevant level of detail. In order to identify the optimal design of such processes, the structure and
performance of intensiﬁed setups such as autothermal reactors, jet-loop reactors (and several other devices
deployed in recent modular designs12) must be captured explicitly. Of particular import is capturing the
geometric dimensions and features, which are often at the origin of the favorable performance of these devices
(high internal area to volume ratio is oft cited as one of the main performance-enhancing characteristics of
a autothermal reactors1). Conversely, reduced dimensions can amplify the impact of phenomena that are
routinely encountered in conventional unit operations; as an example, reducing dimensions also increase the
external area to volume ratio, and the eﬀect that ambient heat losses may have on an intensiﬁed autothermal
reactor may be (relatively speaking) much stronger that in the case of a conventional large-scale reactor.
Similar considerations apply to distillation systems (contrast, e.g., Figures 3 and 4).
Further motivation towards increasing the level of equipment geometric and constructive detail in the
ﬂowsheet modeling and design optimization stems from the need to identify opportunities for modularization
at the design stage. The availability of such information provides the opportunity to optimize a plant design
to ﬁt in a speciﬁc footprint, such as that of the shipping container frequently used to package and deploy
such modular plants.
A tighter collaboration between process designers and equipment manufacturers should also be estab-
lished, with the aim of ﬁnding the design solutions that lead not only to high performance from a process
point of view, but also to lower equipment capital costs and more deployable plants. Reducing the cost
of modular equipment inherently reduces the business risk of deploying such solutions, and can therefore
provide signiﬁcant impetus for their adoption. Steps in this direction can conceivably include standardiz-
ing a signiﬁcant number of components within each module (e.g., using the same type of valve wherever
possible), identifying low-cost, high quality fabrication options (e.g., robot-assisted vs. manual welding),
streamlining the parts supply chain by engaging suppliers, modularizing construction, choosing materials of
the appropriate strength for frames, etc.
11
--- Page 13 ---
Figure 4: Modularized distillation system with heated insulated enclosure designed for low-temperature (-
150F, 172 K) service (Compare with system in Figure 3, which was designed for service in ambient conditions
up to 150F, 339 K). Image used with permission from Mr. Bill Stanley. Image obtained by merging two
separate photographs and adjusting contrast. These edits do not alter the representation of the physical
system).
12
--- Page 14 ---
4.2
Modular process control
It is likely that the control of modular production architectures will require expanding or modifying the set
of control decisions typically implemented in process systems, where a supervisory controller meets plant-
wide control objectives by directing the operation of a regulatory control layer, while the setpoints of the
supervisory control system are dictated by an optimization calculation that considers production scheduling
and/or real time optimization of the process state44.
Speciﬁcally, a close coordination between production modules is required. This is especially true for par-
allel conﬁgurations, where a coordinating controller ensures that all the feedstock molecules are processed in
the same way. Cooperative control strategies will likely be necessary to orchestrate module operation45 in
spatially distributed conﬁgurations. Furthermore, production turn-up and turn-down in the case of modular
manufacturing is likely to involve activating and deactivating (turning on and oﬀ) one or several modules 
a set of discrete decisions that should be accommodated in the control, coordination and cooperation mech-
anisms. In circumstances where the operating conditions of the system change rapidly, close coordination
between process control and production scheduling will be required46.
The development of speciﬁc architectures, such as Decentralized Intelligence for Modular Applications
(DIMA) are being developed under the aegis of the Industry 4.0 initiative in Europe47. Future work for
attaining the plug & produce capability required to create ﬂexible, cost-eﬃcient modules include includes the
development of scalable, composable dynamic process models for model-based control. Such models could be
developed by the manufacturers of the modules themselves, and delivered together with the physical module
to the user in a very cost eﬀective manner. In this way, every module would be accompanied by a digital
twin, that is used for advanced control and operational optimization.
The fact that in many cases modular plants are operated remotely without on-site personnel provides a
strong motivation for further developments in process monitoring and fault diagnosis techniques. Advances
in predictive equipment condition monitoring and predictive maintenance also become particularly valuable
in this context.
We note here that the control of modular systems that rely on process intensiﬁcation concepts may pose
special challenges, related to the loss of control degrees of freedom and strong interactions between multiple
phenomena48,49,50.
4.3
Modular process operations
The discussion presented above suggests that the planning and scheduling of production, as well as supply
chain analysis and optimization, play a key role in modular production, particularly in the distributed case.
Modularly deployable facilities have the potential to support new processing paradigms. Among others, it
is conceivable that plants can be deployed on demand to meet a stringent need (e.g., water puriﬁcation or
the production of pharmaceutics or supplies during a crisis), or relocated frequently as the supply ﬂuctuates
(such as following the harvest of, e.g., biomass crops in a seasonal migration pattern). Additional approaches,
such as co-operative use of a facility by multiple users/co-owners or crowdsourcing patterns in which the
resource is allocated ad-hoc at a variable cost and based on need, may emerge.
Further eﬀorts should be expended in both process design and the optimization of process operations
(in particular, capacity planning) on identifying opportunities for taking advantage of multiple, co-located
distributed resources in distributed modular processing conﬁgurations. For example, several stranded gas
deposits in Texas are located in areas with high potential for wind-power generation, suggesting the possibility
for electricity-powered modular processing and GTL conversion51. Also, reverse osmosis-based desalination
plants can be constructed at small scales and operated in a grid-independent fashion by using, e.g., wind
power52.
5
Conclusions
In this paper, we discuss the current status of modularization in the chemical industry and show by relevant
examples that major opportunities exist for the decentralized, scalable and ﬂexible production using modular
systems.
We make the distinction between modular construction of a facility and modular processing,
focusing on architectures and conﬁgurations for the latter. We argue the case for modular processing in
13
--- Page 15 ---
terms of the new concept of value density, a metric deﬁned to characterize the geographic distribution of
feedstock and/or markets for absorbing products.
Numerous examples show that modular processing is a concept that is accepted by many practitioners.
However, the authors experience is that the beneﬁts of modularization (and, in particular, modular con-
struction) are not yet universally known and appreciated. As a consequence, promoting these concepts via
training and education, and ﬁnding new application domains or new directions within existing ones remain
crucial for expanding the modular production paradigm.
Process intensiﬁcation can and will play an important role in the expansion of modular processing by
providing new process designs with favorable scale-down characteristics. Major opportunities exist to make
chemical processes more proﬁtable and sustainable through PI and other means (such as modularization),
by reducing the energy use and the associated CO2 emissions, the cost of production, the amount of waste
and environmental impact. Modular deployment and production can lead to increased ﬂexibility in meeting
market and customer demands. Developments in modular systems design and integration are and will be
powered by advanced process intensiﬁcation methods. However, intensiﬁcation is neither a necessary nor a
suﬃcient condition for process modularization.
Interactions between chemical engineers and equipment manufacturers can also lead to new equipment
construction techniques that can lower capital cost without compromising performance. The convergence
of these factors will likely democratize access to chemical manufacturing to a broader base of enterprises,
particularly small businesses or businesses in developing countries.
Modularization in all its guises can
simplify engineering, increase plant eﬃciency and production ﬂexibility, reduce the time to market, and
improve the overall competitiveness.
6
Acknowledgments
Financial support for MB from the National Science Foundation (NSF) through the CAREER Award 1454433
and Award CBET-1512379 is acknowledged with gratitude. AAK acknowledges the valuable discussions with
the former industrial colleagues from AkzoNobel. The authors would also like thank the reviewers for their
insightful comments and suggestions.
14
--- Page 16 ---
References
[1] D.A. Reay, C. Ramshaw, and A.P. Harvey. Process intensiﬁcation: engineering for eﬃciency, sustain-
ability and ﬂexibility. Butterworth-Heinemann, Waltham, MA, 2013.
[2] L.B. Glaser, J. Kramer, and E. Causey.
Modular plant concepts-practical aspects of modular and
barge-mounted plants. Chemical Engineering Progress, 75(10):4955, 1979.
[3] R. Armstrong. Better ways to build process plants. Chemical Engineering, 79:8694, 1972.
[4] Robert S. Nahas. Modular approach to mideast projects saves time. OIL & GAS JOURNAL, 76(3):
6870, 1978.
[5] Viron D. Kliewer. Beneﬁts of modular plant design. Chemical engineering progress, 79(10):5862, 1983.
[6] M. L. De La Torre. A review and analysis of modular construction practices. Masters thesis, Lehigh
University, Bethlehem, PA, 1994.
[7] S. Roy. Consider modular plant design. Chem. Eng. Prog., 113(5):2831, 2017.
[8] L. B. Glaser and J. Kramer. Does modularization reduce plant investment?
Chemical engineering
progress, 79(10):6368, 1983.
[9] W. E. Hesler. Modular design-where it ﬁts. Chemical Engineering Progress, 86(10):7680, 1990.
[10] Lukas Hohmann, Katrin Kossl, Norbert Kockmann, Gerhard Schembecker, and Christian Bramsiepe.
Modules in process industry- a life cycle deﬁnition.
Chemical Engineering and Processing: Process
Intensiﬁcation, 111:115126, 2017.
[11] Thomas Burgess, Brian Hwarng, Nicky Shaw, and Claudio De Mattos. Enhancing value stream agility::
The uk speciality chemical industry. European Management Journal, 20(2):199212, 2002.
[12] S. Buchholz. Flexible, fast and future production processes (F 3 Factory). European Commission Project
No. 228867 Report, 2014.
[13] C. Bramsiepe, S. Sievers, T. Seifert, G. D. Stefanidis, D. G. Vlachos, H. Schnitzer, B. Muster, C. Brun-
ner, J. P. M. Sanders, M. E. Bruins, and G. Schembecker. Low-cost small scale processing technologies
for production applications in various environmentsmass produced factories. Chemical Engineering and
Processing: Process Intensiﬁcation, 51:3252, 2012.
[14] Johannes Rottke, Florian Grote, Holger Frohlich, Dirk Koster, and Jochen Strube. Eﬃcient engineering
by modularization into package units. Chemie Ingenieur Technik, 84(6):885891, 2012.
[15] H. Mothes. No-regret solutionsModular production concepts for times of complexity and uncertainty.
ChemBioEng Reviews, 2(6):423435, 2015.
[16] T. F. Edgar, S. W. Butler, W. J. Campbell, C. Pfeiﬀer, C. Bode, S. B. Hwang, K. S. Balakrishnan, and
J. Hahn. Automatic control in microelectronics manufacturing: Practices, challenges, and possibilities.
Automatica, 36(11):15671603, 2000.
[17] T. F. Edgar, D. M. Himmelblau, and L. S. Lasdon. Optimization of chemical processes. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York, 1989.
[18] E. Dahlgren, C. Gocmen, K. Lackner, and G. Van Ryzin. Small modular infrastructure. The Engineering
Economist, 58(4):231264, 2013.
[19] Stefan Lier and Marcus Grunewald. Net present value analysis of modular chemical production plants.
Chemical Engineering & Technology, 34(5):809816, 2011.
[20] Stefan Sievers, Tim Seifert, Gerhard Schembecker, and Christian Bramsiepe. Methodology for evaluating
modular production concepts. Chemical Engineering Science, 155:153166, 2016.
15
--- Page 17 ---
[21] Cristiana L. Lara and Ignacio E. Grossmann. Global optimization for a continuous location-allocation
model for centralized and distributed manufacturing. In Z. Kravanja and M. Bogataj, editors, 26th
European Symposium on Computer Aided Process Engineering, volume 38 of Computer Aided Chemical
Engineering, pages 1009  1014. Elsevier, 2016. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-63428-3.
50173-9. URL http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780444634283501739.
[22] A. R. Smith and J. Klosek. A review of air separation technologies and their integration with energy
conversion processes. Fuel processing technology, 70(2):115134, 2001.
[23] Praxair
small
onsite
production.
http://www.praxair.com/services/
industrial-gas-supply-and-management/small-onsite-production, last retrieved 10/22/2016.
[24] Air Products and Chemicals Prism Hydrogen Genrator. http://www.airproducts.com/Company/
news-center/2013/06/0624-air-products-extends-prism-hydrogen-generator-product-line.
aspx, last retrieved 10/23/2016.
[25] D. Wood and S. Mokhatab. Technology options for securing markets for remote gas. World Oil, 229
(1):15, 2008.
[26] C. Ogugbue, G. Chukwu, and S. Khataniar. Economics of GTL technology for gas utilization.
In
Hydrocarbon Economics and Evaluation Symposium, 2007.
[27] L. Van Bibber, E. Shuster, J. Haslbeck, M. Rutkowski, S. Olsen, and S. Kramer. Technical and economic
assessment of small-scale Fischer-Tropsch liquids facilities. US Dept. of Energy Report DOE/NETL-
2007/1253, 2007.
[28] K. Roberts. Modular design of smaller-scale GTL plants. Petroleum technol. quarterly, 18:101103,
2013.
[29] S. LeViness, S.R. Deshmukh, L.A. Richard, and H.J. Robota. Velocys Fischer-Tropsch synthesis tech-
nology  New advances on state-of-the-art. Topics in Catalysis, 57(6-9):518525, 2014.
[30] Velocys microchannel reactors.
http://www.velocys.com/our_technology_core_technologies_
reactors.php, last retrieved 2/24/2017.
[31] P. Lamers, M. S. Roni, J. S. Tumuluru, J. J. Jacobson, K. G. Caﬀerty, J. K. Hansen, K. Kenney, F. Tey-
mouri, and B. Bals. Techno-economic analysis of decentralized biomass processing depots. Bioresource
technology, 194:205213, 2015.
[32] M. E. Bruins and J. P. M. Sanders. Small-scale processing of biomass for bioreﬁnery. Biofuels, Bioprod-
ucts and Bioreﬁning, 6(2):135145, 2012.
[33] P. Daoutidis, W. A. Marvin, S. Rangarajan, and A. I. Torres. Engineering biomass conversion processes:
a systems perspective. AIChE J., 59(1):318, 2013.
[34] L. Dong, H. Liu, and S. Riﬀat.
Development of small-scale and micro-scale biomass-fuelled CHP
systemsa literature review. Applied thermal engineering, 29(11):21192126, 2009.
[35] A. K. Boal. On-site generation of disinfectants. The National Environmental Services Center at West
Virginia University Technical Brief, 9(1), 2009.
[36] OSEQ B Chlorine generation system. http://www.evoqua.com/en/brands/Wallace_and_Tiernan/
Pages/OSEC-B.aspx, last retrieved 10/25/2016.
[37] De Nora water technologies. http://www.denora.com/company/water-technologies.html, last re-
trieved 10/26/2016.
[38] Akzonobel
small-scale
chlorine
plants.
https://www.akzonobel.com/ic/products/remote_
controlled_chlorine_production/small_scale_units/, last retrieved 6/5/2017.
16
--- Page 18 ---
[39] A. M. Barrett. Cost eﬀectiveness of on-site chlorine generation for chlorine truck attack prevention.
Decision Analysis, 7(4):366377, 2010.
[40] D. G. Lippmann. Evaluation of risks related to the transport of anhydrous ammonia and their mitigation
by localized small scale production. In Proceedings of 2012 AIChE Ammonia Safety Symposium, page
Paper 1b, Chicago, IL, 2012.
[41] D.T. Allen and D. R. Shonnard.
Green engineering: environmentally conscious design of chemical
processes. Pearson Education, 2001.
[42] L. Jacquemin, P. Y. Pontalier, and C. Sablayrolles. Life cycle assessment (LCA) applied to the process
industry: a review. Int. J. Life Cycle Assessment, 17(8):10281041, 2012.
[43] T. Bieringer, S. Buchholz, and N. Kockmann. Future production concepts in the chemical industry:
Modularsmall-scalecontinuous. Chemical Engineering & Technology, 36(6):900910, 2013.
[44] D.E. Seborg, T.F. Edgar, D.A. Mellichamp, and F.J. Doyle III. Process dynamics and control, fourth
edition. Wiley, 2016.
[45] J.B. Rawlings and B.T. Stewart. Coordinating multiple optimization-based controllers: New opportu-
nities and challenges. J. Proc. Contr., 18(9):839845, 2008.
[46] M. Baldea and I. Harjunkoski. Integrated production scheduling and process control: A systematic
review. Comput. Chem. Eng., 71:377390, 2014.
[47] A
revolutionary
automation
solution
from
WAGO
for
the
process
industry.
http://
www.automationinside.com/2015/01/a-revolutionary-automation-solution.html, last retrieved
6/5/2017.
[48] A. A. Kiss and C. S. Bildea. A control perspective on process intensiﬁcation in dividing-wall columns.
Chem. Eng. Proc.: Process Intensiﬁcation, 50(3):281292, 2011.
[49] N. M. Nikaˇcevic, A. E. M. Huesman, P. M. J. Van den Hof, and A. I. Stankiewicz. Opportunities and
challenges for process control in process intensiﬁcation. Chem. Eng. Proc.: Process Intensiﬁcation, 52:
115, 2012.
[50] M. Baldea. From process integration to process intensiﬁcation. Comput. Chem. Eng., 81:104114, 2015.
[51] M. Baldea. Multum in parvo: A process intensiﬁcation retrospective and outlook. In M.R. Eden, J.D.
Siirola, and G.P. Towler, editors, Foundations of Computer Aided Process Design (FOCAPD), pages
1524, Cle Elum, WA, 2014. Elsevier.
[52] M. Forstmeier, F. Mannerheim, F. DAmato, M. Shah, Y. Liu, M. Baldea, and A. Stella. Feasibility
study on wind-powered desalination. Desalination, 203(1):463470, 2007.
17
View publication stats